# Black-Scholes-for-European-options-pricing-with-dividends

Assumptions are made to price vanilla European options. We define here the results of the Black Scholes stochastic equation leading to an estimation of the options' prices using log-normal assumption on the spot price, fixed strike, time to maturity, interest rate, dividend rate and volatility. We will see that fixing volatility constant is not always a good idea but here is a baseline for European options pricing with dividends. 
We can now look at the variation of the option's price due to the variation of the spot price S_t  using the Dividend Paying Black-Scholes Formula. Increasing the spot price leads to increasing call value and decreasing put value. 
We may display the variation of the option's price due to the variation of the dividend q. As expected a higher dividend with all the other parameters fixed will lead to higher put value and smaller call value.
We can also look at the variation of the option's price due to the variation of the volatility σ using the Dividend Paying Black-Scholes Formula.
Effect of Time on Black-Scholes Price:
Increasing the time to maturity of an option will lead to an increasing call value and a decreasing put value. This could be explained by the fact that the longer the time to maturity the more risks we could encounter due to the market's volatility.
Several problems arise using Black Scholes. Indeed, for the whole time to maturity we assume that the volatilty σ is constant while movements in the assets and the underlying may happend due to external events. In this case we see Black-Scholes'limits and could lead to implement stochastic equations on the volatility to take those variations into account. That is why if the model does not fit the ground truth, changements need to be made to the model to fit reality.
The code computes the rolling standard deviation for APPLE during around 10 years. The volatility σ cannot be considered constant. If we take the mean standard deviation over the entire sample it is approximately 0.26 but we can notice a huge spike in the end. In those cases the model is not relevant.
Another con of Black Scholes is the symmetry in the normal distribution not always verified with long/short tails underlying distribution. Adding to this the fact that the model underestimates the tail density, we get out-of-the-money options that are underestimated as shown below.
Test on three stoks AAPL, MSFT, WMT from 2010-01-01 to 2020-10-01. As we are working with dividends we will consider the adjusted close instead of the close value. This way we will get a more accurate estimation of the stock value as the adjusted closing price begins where the closing price ends, it can be called a more accurate measure of stocks' value.
Plot of the options' price (calls and puts) estimated by Black-Scholes applied on Apple's stocks values recolted over a year on a daily basis.
